[Concord Hymn]
  
  By the rude bridge that arched the flood,
  Their flag to April's breeze unfurled,
  Here once the embattled farmers stood,
  And fired the shot heard round the world.
  
  The foe long since in silence slept;
  Alike the conqueror silent sleeps;
  And Time the ruined bridge has swept
  Down the dark stream which seaward creeps.
  
  On this green bank, by this soft stream,
  We set to-day a votive stone;
  That memory may their deed redeem,
  When, like our sires, our sons are gone.
  
  Spirit, that made those heroes dare,
  To die, and leave their children free,
  Bid Time and Nature gently spare
  The shaft we raise to them and thee.
  
      Ralph Waldo Emerson
[The Raven]
  
  Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
  Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore,
  While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,
  As of someone gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.
  " 'Tis some visitor," I muttered, "tapping at my chamber door;
  Only this, and nothing more."
  
  Ah, distinctly I remember, it was in the bleak December,
  And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
  Eagerly I wished the morrow; vainly I had sought to borrow
  From my books surcease of sorrow, sorrow for the lost Lenore,.
  For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore,
  Nameless here forevermore.
  
  And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain
  Thrilled me---filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;
  So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating,
  " 'Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door,
  Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door.
  This it is, and nothing more."
  
  Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,
  "Sir," said I, "or madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;
  But the fact is, I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,
  And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,
  That I scarce was sure I heard you." Here I opened wide the door;---
  Darkness there, and nothing more.
  
  Deep into the darkness peering, long I stood there, wondering, fearing
  Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortals ever dared to dream before;
  But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token,
  And the only word there spoken was the whispered word,
  Lenore?, This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word,
  "Lenore!" Merely this, and nothing more.
  
  Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,
  Soon again I heard a tapping, something louder than before,
  "Surely," said I, "surely, that is something at my window lattice.
  Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore.
  Let my heart be still a moment, and this mystery explore.
  " 'Tis the wind, and nothing more."
  
  Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
  In there stepped a stately raven, of the saintly days of yore.
  Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he;
  But with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door.
  Perched upon a bust of Pallas, just above my chamber door,
  Perched, and sat, and nothing more.
  
  Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,
  By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,
  "Though thy crest be shorn and shaven thou," I said, "art sure no craven,
  Ghastly, grim, and ancient raven, wandering from the nightly shore.
  Tell me what the lordly name is on the Night's Plutonian shore."
  Quoth the raven, "Nevermore."
  
  Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly,
  Though its answer little meaning, little relevancy bore;
  For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being
  Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door,
  Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,
  With such name as "Nevermore."
  
  But the raven, sitting lonely on that placid bust, spoke only
  That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.
  Nothing further then he uttered; not a feather then he fluttered;
  Till I scarcely more than muttered, "Other friends have flown before;
  On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have flown before."
  Then the bird said, "Nevermore."
  
  Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,
  "Doubtless," said I, "what it utters is its only stock and store,
  Caught from some unhappy master, whom unmerciful disaster
  Followed fast and followed faster, till his songs one burden bore,---
  Till the dirges of his hope that melancholy burden bore
  Of "Never---nevermore."
  
  But the raven still beguiling all my sad soul into smiling,
  Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door;
  Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking
  Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore --
  What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt and ominous bird of yore
                                         Meant in croaking "Nevermore."
  
  Thus I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
  To the fowl, whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core;
  This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining
  On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamplight gloated o'er,
  But whose velvet violet lining with the lamplight gloating o'er
  She shall press, ah, nevermore!
  
  Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer
  Swung by seraphim whose footfalls tinkled on the tufted floor.
  "Wretch," I cried, "thy God hath lent thee -- by these angels he hath
  Sent thee respite---respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore!
  Quaff, O quaff this kind nepenthe, and forget this lost Lenore!"
  Quoth the raven, "Nevermore!"
  
  "Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil!--prophet still, if bird or devil!
  Whether tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,
  Desolate, yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted--
  On this home by horror haunted--tell me truly, I implore:
  Is there--is there balm in Gilead?--tell me--tell me I implore!"
  Quoth the raven, "Nevermore."
  
  "Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil--prophet still, if bird or devil!
  By that heaven that bends above us--by that God we both adore--
  Tell this soul with sorrow laden, if, within the distant Aidenn,
  It shall clasp a sainted maiden, whom the angels name Lenore---
  Clasp a rare and radiant maiden, whom the angels name Lenore?
  Quoth the raven, "Nevermore."
  
  "Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!" I shrieked, upstarting--
  "Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore!
  Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
  Leave my loneliness unbroken! -- quit the bust above my door!
  Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!"
  Quoth the raven, "Nevermore."
  
  And the raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting
  On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
  And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming.
  And the lamplight o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor;
  And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
  Shall be lifted---nevermore!
  
      Edgar Allan Poe, 1845
[The Walrus and the Carpenter]
  
  The sun was shining on the sea,
  Shining with all his might:
  He did his very best to make
  The billows smooth and bright --
  And this was odd, because it was
  The middle of the night.
  
  The moon was shining sulkily,
  Because she thought the sun
  Had got no business to be there
  After the day was done --
  'It's very rude of him.' she said,
  'To come and spoil the fun!'
  
  The sea was wet as wet could be,
  The sands were dry as dry.
  You could not see a cloud, because
  No cloud was in the sky:
  No birds were flying overhead --
  There were no birds to fly.
  
  The Walrus and the Carpenter
  Were walking close at hand:
  They wept like anything to see
  Such quantities of sand:
  'If this were only cleared away,'
  They said, 'it would be grand.'
  
  'If seven maids with seven mops
  Swept it for half a year,
  Do you suppose,' the Walrus said,
  'That they could get it clear?'
  'l doubt it,' said the Carpenter,
  And shed a bitter tear.
  
  'O Oysters, come and walk with us!
  The Walrus did beseech.
  'A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,
  Along the briny beach:
  We cannot do with more than four,
  To give a hand to each.'
  
  The eldest Oyster looked at him,
  But never a word he said:
  The eldest Oyster winked his eye,
  And shook his heavy head --
  Meaning to say he did not choose
  To leave the oyster-bed.
  
  Out four young Oysters hurried up.
  All eager for the treat:
  Their coats were brushed, their faces washed,
  Their shoes were clean and neat --
  And this was odd, because, you know,
  They hadn't any feet.
  
  Four other Oysters followed them,
  And yet another four;
  And thick and fast they came at last,
  And more, and more, and more --
  All hopping through the frothy waves,
  And scrambling to the shore.
  
  The Walrus and the Carpenter
  Walked on a mile or so,
  And then they rested on a rock
  Conveniently low:
  And all the little Oysters stood
  And waited in a row.
  
  'The time has come,' the Walrus said,
  'To talk of many things:
  Of shoes -- and ships -- and sealing wax --
  Of cabbages -- and kings --
  And why the sea is boiling hot --
  And whether pigs have wings.'
  
  'But wait a bit,' the Oysters cried,
  'Before we have our chat;
  For some of us are out of breath,
  And all of us are fat!'
  'No hurry!' said the Carpenter.
  They thanked him much for that.
  
  'A loaf of bread,' the Walrus said,
  'Is what we chiefly need:
  Pepper and vinegar besides
  Are very good indeed --
  Now, if you're ready, Oysters dear,
  We can begin to feed.'
  
  'But not on us!' the Oysters cried,
  Turning a little blue.
  'After such kindness, that would be
  A dismal thing to do!'
  'The night is fine,' the Walrus said,
  'Do you admire the view?'
  
  'It was so kind of you to come!
  And you are very nice!'
  The Carpenter said nothing but
  'Cut us another slice-
  I wish you were not quite so deaf-
  I've had to ask you twice!'
  
  'It seems a shame,' the Walrus said,
  'To play them such a trick.
  After we've brought them out so far,
  And made them trot so quick!'
  The Carpenter said nothing but
  'The butter's spread too thick!'
  
  'I weep for you,'the Walrus said:
  'I deeply sympathize.'
  With sobs and tears he sorted out
  Those of the largest size,
  Holding his pocket-handkerchief
  Before his streaming eyes.
  
  'O Oysters,' said the Carpenter,
  'You've had a pleasant run!
  Shall we be trotting home again?'
  But answer came there none --
  And this was scarcely odd, because
  They'd eaten every one.
[The man who wasn't there]
  
  As I was walking up the stair
  I met a man who wasn't there
  He wasn't there again today
  I wish, I wish he'd stay away
  
      Hughes Mearns (1875-1965)
      (also attributed to Ogden Nash)
